Project proposal
================
Team name

``` r
library(tidyverse)
library(broom)
```

## 1. Introduction

In this project, we will be using a dataset from Equity in Athletics
Data Analysis to analyze trends in funding and athletic conference
results. The data we are using comes directly from the U.S. Department
of Education and contains data from 2003 - 2019 and focuses directly on
the New England Small Athletic Conference schools. The data are drawn
from the OPE Equity in Athletics Disclosure Website database. This
database consists of athletics data that are submitted annually as
required by the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act (EADA), via a
Web-based data collection, by all co-educational postsecondary
institutions that receive Title IV funding (i.e., those that participate
in federal student aid programs) and that have an intercollegiate
athletics program.

The survey data is broken down into multiple categories including
Participants, Head Coaching Staff, Assistant Coaching Staff,
Athletically Related Student Aid, Revenues, Recruiting Expenses,
Operating Expenses, and Expenses. This data will then be compared to
NESCAC conference results from the years 2003-2009.

The specific questions we want to answer using this data set are: \*
Does funding have an impact on results of a program \* What is the
breakdown equity of funding for men and womenâ€™s teams? Individual
schools? NESCAC wide? \* Do increased recruiting expenses, operating
expenses, and expenses correlate with increases in winning? How are
these trends fair between 2003-2019? \* Are sports with higher rates of
funding more likely to achieve success? Do coach salaries have a factor
in success rates?

## 2. Data

## 3. Data analysis plan
